index.md, before:

# Welcome to Obedientia ex Machina

Obedientia ex Machina is a new system for all your robot RP and Control needs in Second Life.
We are located at the Synthetic Union and you can find us at [this location](http://maps.secondlife.com/secondlife/GEL%20Community%2042/167/178/62).

We specialize in flexibility and extensibillity, with a wide set of features to enhance roleplay, or to completely lock down your property.

- A fast, stable, base.<br />
  We worked hard to make a stable system for our product, menus that won't crash your controller when multiple people access it, the option to edit your items and still keep them running (within limits).
- Subsystem menu, for RLV restrictions.<br />
  See [the menu systems for a full overview](./menu_system). If you're creative, the raw [RLV command](./notecard_scripting) in the notecards can do even more.
- Voice control and renaming; also modulation (modification) both via notecards and via scripts
- Follow system<br />
  Freeze your unit in place except to follow you around. Take them any where
- Notecard programming<br />
  For both RP, and RLV features. RP configure the unit's behaviour, make this add restrictions, what ever you can think off.
- Lightbus compatibility<br />
  Accesorizing is important, we know this, and you don't want to throw away your old things.<br />
  Wherever possible we interoperate with existing standards to keep your things working.
- Advanced owner system with permissions<br />
  Several different roles, guest access, blacklist, and of course, the option to lock the wearer completely out.
- Devices!<br />
  You are what you wear. Right now we only have Controller Panels and batteries. Batteries are not mandatory by default, but there are configuration stations that can change that.
- No rebuying what you already have.<br />
  You want a battery with different charge level? Well, just visit our handy hardware configuration station and set how long your battery lasts<br />
  You want a new housing because it looks pretty? Just buy the new housing, no need to buy an expensive new controller as well!<br />

Commit message:

Added the latest announcement to our website, and a discord invite link!

index.md, after:

# Welcome to Obedientia ex Machina

Obedientia ex Machina is a new system for all your robot RP and Control needs in Second Life.
We are located at the Synthetic Union and you can find us at [this location](http://maps.secondlife.com/secondlife/GEL%20Community%2042/167/178/62) or our discord!  [![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/755863562785915050?color=purple&label=OeM%20Discord&style=plastic)](https://discord.gg/j44BhKHBjw)

We specialize in flexibility and extensibillity, with a wide set of features to enhance roleplay, or to completely lock down your property.

# Latest announcement

I hope your refrigerating systems are working well this summer (or your insulation systems for those in the other half of the world).

Oh bot do I have a bunch of news for you today, but they are all related! First of all today we are releasing a new controller housing CH-One Mini. This new housing is similar to the previous CH-One but removes most of it's body, leaving it with mainly the screen. It however has a new addition: A battery holder, which disables itself if you don't have a battery, if you want to see it anyway you can use the device menu to always show it. If you never want to see it, that's an option too! It also has a really nice feature where, once you update your battery, it will be able to position it perfectly in the battery holder

Wait, did I just say update the battery? Yup, we are releasing an update for the battery AND the CH-One. There is just one slight problem. As it happened with most of our initial products, the excitement of the release day made us mess some checks, and they can't be updated via the controller, as they normally would be able to. So I'm afraid a redelivery is required for both the battery and the CH-One. We apologize for the inconvenience.

Finally we are releasing an update for the controller aswell, OeMCore\_v3.0 which introduces applications! Now you can make your own programs for your controller. To help you with these, we have been working on our documentation of the controller. A new link has been posted in oem-links for it. This documentation is a work in progress, there's a bunch of linked messages we've not documented yet, or documentation that isn't good enough yet. If there is something you'd like to see improved, please contact us in the discord! So far we have documented the most used linked messages, but if you ask for it, we will document almost anything

![Product image](/Obedientiae-ex-Machina-Docs/images/products/CH_One_Mini_2.png)

That's all folks! Stay obedient!

# Feature list
A bullet list of the things we pride ourselves on:

- A fast, stable, base.<br />
  We worked hard to make a stable system for our product, menus that won't crash your controller when multiple people access it, the option to edit your items and still keep them running (within limits).
- Subsystem menu, for RLV restrictions.<br />
  See [the menu systems for a full overview](./menu_system). If you're creative, the raw [RLV command](./notecard_scripting) in the notecards can do even more.
- Voice control and renaming; also modulation (modification) both via notecards and via scripts
- Follow system<br />
  Freeze your unit in place except to follow you around. Take them any where
- Notecard programming<br />
  For both RP, and RLV features. RP configure the unit's behaviour, make this add restrictions, what ever you can think off.
- Lightbus compatibility<br />
  Accesorizing is important, we know this, and you don't want to throw away your old things.<br />
  Wherever possible we interoperate with existing standards to keep your things working.
- Advanced owner system with permissions<br />
  Several different roles, guest access, blacklist, and of course, the option to lock the wearer completely out.
- Devices!<br />
  You are what you wear. Right now we only have Controller Panels and batteries.
  Batteries are not mandatory by default, but there are configuration stations that can change that.
  If you want you can swap between copies of the visual stuff for different forms and it will just be picked up, no need to update your access list for every form you have, you can just work it.
- No rebuying what you already have.<br />
  You want a battery with different charge level? Well, just visit our handy hardware configuration station and set how long your battery lasts<br />
  You want a new housing because it looks pretty? Just buy the new housing, no need to buy an expensive new controller as well!<br />
